{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1347\cocoasubrtf570
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10900\viewh13040\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 LC-MS sample prep for DOC\
\

\i Prepare extraction solution
\i0 \
1. Get LC-MS water (in brown bottle in cabinet under scale)\
2. Rinse 50mL tube 2x with LCMS water.\
3. Add 50mL LC-MS water (pour, don\'92t pipette!).\
4. We will not be adding ABMBA or 13C-glucose so we can do DOC on the samples.\
6. Keep this all on ice, or in the cold room!\
\

\i Suspend samples in LC-MS water extractant
\i0 \
9. Dump the soil from the 2mL and 5mL tubes into the corresponding 15 mL tube and take its final mass. This is the mass of dry soil being extracted. Enter this mass into spreadsheet.\
10. Add [probably 0.5mL] extractant to each tube, pipette up and down, and move extractant wash to corresponding 15mL tube.\
11. Calculate remaining extractant needed (total 4x soil mass).\
12. Add remaining extractant to each 15mL tube for a total of 4x soil mass.\
13. Shake in cold room at 200 rpm for 1h horizontally.\
14. While waiting, label 2mL and 5mL tubes.\
15. Centrifuge 15 min @ 3200xg (4000 rpm).\
16. Transfer all supernatant to syringe and filter 0.45\'b5m syringe filter into 5mL tube.\
17. Transfer exactly 1mL [1.5mL?] to 2mL tube, freeze in -80\'b0C.\
18. Save remaining sample for TOC in the fridge.\
19. Poke hole in -80\'b0C tube tops with a needle.\
20. Lyophilize overnight, store in -20\'b0C afterward if needed.\
\

\i Suspend samples in MeOH for analysis
\i0 \
1. Label 2.0mL glass vials with insert.\
2. Spin freeze-dried sample down briefly in centrifuge (just get up to 4000 rpm and stop)\
3. Add 100 \'b5L MeOH with internal standards (*?) added. Pipette 100\'b5L directly in the bottom, then pipette up and down to mix. You won\'92t get everything, and MeOH will evaporate, so move smoothly and quickly.\
4. Pulse spin down in centrifuge.\
5. Transfer ~100\'b5L supernatant to 0.2\'b5m PALL spin filters placed in new tubes.\
6. Spin 10,000 rcf for 1 minute.\
7. Transfer filtrate to 2.0mL glass vials with insert.\
8. Store in fridge for short-term, -20\'b0C for longer-term storage before analysis.}